5% of the global biodiversity is in Papua New Guinea. Even though it just spans 1% of the Earth's total surface area, Papua New Guinea contains 5% of the world's biodiversity. It boasts around 20,000 plant species, 800 coral species, 600 fish species, and 750 bird species.

In fact, after the Amazon and the Congo, the island of New Guinea is home to the world's third biggest rainforest. From Papua New Guinea to West Papua in Indonesia, this rainforest occupies over 288 000 square kilometers of the island's total mass.

Over 80% of its population lives in rural areas. This means that the majority of the population lacks access to contemporary amenities such as healthcare and education. This ancient tribal way of life stands in stark contrast to the modern world.

One of the most heterogeneous countries Hundreds of ethnic groupings make up Papua New Guinea. Many of the residents can trace their roots back thousands of years. Many tribes of Papua New Guinea have ties to other parts of the world, including China, Europe, Australia, the Philippines, and Micronesia. These people are known as Austronesians in the country, indicating that their ancestors arrived fewer than 4000 years ago.

Papua New Guinea officially the Independent State of Papua New Guinea, is a country in Oceania that comprises the eastern half of the island in New Guinea and its offshore islands in Melanesia. Its capital is located along its southeastern coast, is Port Moresby. It is the world’s third largest island country with an area of 462,840 km2 (178,700 sq mi). Papua New Guinea is one of the most culturally diverse countries in the world. As of 2019, it is also the most rural, as only 13.25% of its people live in urban centres. 

There are 851 known languages in the country, of which 11 now have no known speakers. Most of the population of more than 8,000,000 people live in customary communities, which are as diverse as the languages. The country is one of the world’s least explored, culturally and geographically. It’s known to have numerous groups of uncontacted peoples, and researchers believe there are many undiscovered species of plants and animals in the interior

Papua New Guinea is one of the world's least studied countries, both culturally and physically, due to its remote location and isolation. This means that its cultural life and customs have been allowed to flourish for millennia without being corrupted by foreign influences. And, with an estimated 750 tribes residing here, it has more than simply well-preserved culture; it has a wonderful richness of it, with hundreds of varied tribal traditions and rites that are both very local and completely unique

It is also a land that houses various types of fauna and flora, and it is the only country in the world that houses the Hooded Pitohui, a bird that is poisonous

Agriculture in New Guinea was independently developed the highlands around 7,000 BC. It is one of the world's few original plant domestication zones. Headhunting and cannibalism were once common in many sections of what is now known as Papua New Guinea. By the early 1950s, open cannibalism had all but vanished due to administrative and missionary effort

The Sepik is PNG's longest river, stretching 1,200 kilometers from the West Papuan border to the Bismarck Sea west of Madang. Wewak is the starting point for river exploration, which is normally done in a motorized longboat. Around every corner, villages with stilt dwellings await, where rites are performed in haus tambarans (spirit houses). You can meet the Crocodile Men of the Chambri tribe, who use skin scarification as an initiation process for boys, leaving 'crocodile' scars on their skin to signify their passage into manhood. Crocodiles
